Simplify README.md (#1418)
semgrep/semgrep: README.md

  <a href="https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/issues/new/choose">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/issues-welcome-green?style=flat-square" alt="Issues welcome!" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep#readme">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/stars/returntocorp/semgrep?label=GitHub%20Stars&style=flat-square" alt="1000+ GitHub stars" />
  </a>
</p>

Semgrep tl;dr:

- A simple, customizable, and fast static analysis tool for finding bugs
- Combines the speed and customization of `grep` with the precision of traditional static analysis tools
- No painful domain-specific language; Semgrep rules look like the source code you’re targeting
- Batteries included with hundreds of existing community rules for OWASP Top 10 issues and common mistakes
- Run it in CI, at pre-commit, or in the editor
- Runs offline on uncompiled code

Semgrep supports:

> - C (beta)

Reviewer: Since we don't really support C and don't have immediate plans to, would it make sense to moving this to last? And Python we support best, maybe put that first?

Reviewer: Do you like the list more than the table?

Author: > Since we don't really support C and don't have immediate plans to, would it make sense to moving this to last? And Python we support best, maybe put that first?

I was trying to avoid the arbitrary ordering and experimented with alphabetical here. Let me see if I can do something different like moving beta languages to the bottom of the list.

> Do you like the list more than the table?

I like it less, haha. I've gotten feedback that the table and its emojis are unclear and found that a list conveyed the same amount of information more succinctly, but I dislike the amount of vertical space it takes up. Let me see what I can do.

Author: Table is up! Thoughts?

- Go
- Java
- JavaScript
- JSON
- OCaml
- Python
- Ruby (beta)

Semgrep is proudly supported by r2c. Learn more about a hosted version of Semgrep with an enterprise feature set at [r2c.dev](https://r2c.dev/).

## Getting Started

The best place to start with Semgrep is its [Quick Start](https://semgrep.dev/editor). For a more in-depth introduction, see the [Semgrep Tutorial](https://semgrep.dev/learn).

Semgrep can be installed using `brew`, `pip`, or `docker`:

```sh
# For macOS
$ brew install semgrep

# On Ubuntu/WSL/linux, we recommend installing via `pip`
$ python3 -m pip install semgrep

# To try Semgrep without installation run via Docker
$ docker run --rm -v "${PWD}:/src" returntocorp/semgrep --help
```

To confirm installation and get an overview of Semgrep's functionality run with `--help`:

```
$ semgrep --help
```

Once installed, Semgrep can be run with single rule patterns or entire rule packs:

```sh
# Check for Python == where the left and right hand sides are the same (often a bug)
$ semgrep -e `$X==$X` --lang=py path/to/src

# Run the default rule pack with rules for many languages

> $ semgrep --config=default path/to/src

Reviewer: What does the default pack run? Should we recommend https://semgrep.dev/p/r2c-CI or https://semgrep.dev/p/r2c-security-audit?

Author: Let's do r2c-CI. Updated.

## Usage

### Command Line Options

See `semgrep --help` for command line options.

### Exit Codes

`semgrep` may exit with the following exit codes:

- `0`: Semgrep ran successfully and found no errors
- `1`: Semgrep ran successfully and found issues in your code
- \>=`2`: Semgrep failed to run

### Upgrading

To upgrade, run the command below associated with how you installed Semgrep:

```sh
# Using HomeBrew
$ brew upgrade semgrep

# Using `pip`
$ python3 -m pip install --upgrade semgrep

# Using Docker
$ docker pull returntocorp/semgrep:latest
```

## Contributing

Semgrep is LGPL-licensed, feel free to help out: [CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md).

Semgrep is a frontend to a larger program analysis library named [`pfff`](https://github.com/returntocorp/pfff/). `pfff` began and was open-sourced at [Facebook](https://github.com/facebookarchive/pfff) but is now archived. The primary maintainer now works at [r2c](https://r2c.dev). Semgrep was originally named `sgrep` and was renamed to avoid collisons with existing projects.

## Commercial Support

Semgrep is supported by [r2c](https://r2c.dev). We're hiring!

> Interested in a fully-supported, hosted version of semgrep? [Drop your email](https://forms.gle/dpUUvSo1WtELL8DW6) and we'll be in touch!

Reviewer: Don't we capitalize Semgrep?

  <a href="https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/issues/new/choose">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/issues-welcome-green?style=flat-square" alt="Issues welcome!" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep#readme">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/stars/returntocorp/semgrep?label=GitHub%20Stars&style=flat-square" alt="1000+ GitHub stars" />
  </a>
</p>

Semgrep tl;dr:

- A simple, customizable, and fast static analysis tool for finding bugs
- Combines the speed and customization of `grep` with the precision of traditional static analysis tools

> - No painful DSL; patterns look like the source code you’re targeting

Reviewer 2: Thoughts on writing out “domain-specific language?”

> - No painful DSL; patterns look like the source code you’re targeting

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- No painful DSL; Semgrep patterns look like the source code you’re targeting
```
?

> - Batteries included with hundreds of existing community rules for OWASP 10 issues and common mistakes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Batteries included with hundreds of existing community rules for OWASP Top 10 issues and common mistakes
```

> - Run it in CI, at pre-commit, or in the editor

Reviewer 2: How does one run it in the editor?

Author: https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep-vscode :)

Author: @pabloest Does this link satisfy your curiosity / question? I can link to it elsewhere in this document.

Reviewer 2: @dlukeomalley Sort of. I’m not sure if it’s robust enough because we don’t provide instructions on how to install it and it’s not available on the VS Code extensions marketplace.

Author: I think teasing this for now makes sense. Alternative is to say "Fast enough for", which feels weaker to me.

Semgrep combines the convenient and iterative style of `grep` with the powerful features of an Abstract Syntax Tree (AST) matcher and limited dataflow. Easily find function calls, class or method definitions, and more without having to understand ASTs or wrestle with regexes.
- A simple, customizable, and fast static analysis tool for finding bugs
- Combines the speed and customization of `grep` with the precision of traditional static analysis tools
- No painful DSL; patterns look like the source code you’re targeting
- Batteries included with hundreds of existing community rules for OWASP 10 issues and common mistakes
- Run it in CI, at pre-commit, or in the editor
- Runs offline on uncompiled code

Visit [Installation](#installation) and [Usage](#usage) to get started.
Semgrep supports:

> ## Installation

Author: Missing JSON and OCaml

Reviewer 3: The construction icon is unclear IMO. Would prefer we say "beta" explicitly.

Reviewer 3: Any reason not to add those two @dlukeomalley ?

Author: Nope, hence the note. Just a copy paste bug for me to fix

> The best place to start with Semgrep is its [Quick Start](https://semgrep.dev/editors). For a more in-depth introduction, see the [Semgrep Tutorial](https://semgrep.dev/learn).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The best place to start with Semgrep is its [Quick Start](https://semgrep.dev/editor). For a more in-depth introduction, see the [Semgrep Tutorial](https://semgrep.dev/learn).
```

Semgrep can be installed using `brew`, `pip`, or `docker`:

```sh
# For macOS
$ brew install semgrep

# On Ubuntu/WSL/linux, we recommend installing via `pip`
$ pip3 install semgrep

# To try Semgrep without installation run via Docker
$ docker run --rm -v "${PWD}:/src" returntocorp/semgrep --help
```

> Once installed, Semgrep can be run with quick patterns or entire rule packs:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once installed, Semgrep can be run with single patterns or entire rule packs:
```

```sh
# Check for Python == where the left and right hand sides are the same (often a bug)
$ semgrep -e `$X==$X` --lang=py path/to/src

# Run the default rule pack with rules for many languages
$ semgrep --config=default path/to/src
```

> Explore community rule packs and CI integrations at [semgrep.dev](https://semgrep.dev/packs).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Explore the Semgrep Registry of rules and CI integrations at [semgrep.dev](https://semgrep.dev/packs).
```

## Examples

### Core Uses

- Ban dangerous APIs [[1](https://semgrep.live/clintgibler:no-exec)]
- Search routes and authentiation [[1](https://semgrep.live/clintgibler:spring-routes)]
- Enforce the use secure defaults [[1](https://semgrep.dev/dlukeomalley:flask-set-cookie)]
- Enforce project best-practices [[1](https://semgrep.dev/dlukeomalley:use-assertEqual-for-equality), [2](https://semgrep.dev/dlukeomalley:unchecked-subprocess-call)]
- Codify project-specific knowledge [[1](https://semgrep.dev/dlukeomalley:verify-before-make)]
- Audit security hotspots [[1](https://semgrep.live/ievans:airflow-xss), [2](https://semgrep.dev/dlukeomalley:hardcoded-credentials)]
- Audit configuration files [[1](https://semgrep.dev/dlukeomalley:s3-arn-use)]

> 

Reviewer 2: IMO the [1] type of link formatting is a bit hard to use since the click targets are small and it’s a bit academic-looking. How about something like this?

### Example uses

| Use case                          | Semgrep rule                                                                                                                                                         |
| :-------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Ban dangerous APIs                | [No exec](https://semgrep.live/clintgibler:no-exec)                                                                                                                  |
| Search routes and authentiation   | [Spring routes](https://semgrep.live/clintgibler:spring-routes)                                                                                                      |
| Enforce the use secure defaults   | [Set cookie](https://semgrep.dev/dlukeomalley:flask-set-cookie)                                                                                                      |
| Enforce project best-practices    | [Use assert](https://semgrep.dev/dlukeomalley:use-assertEqual-for-equality), [Unchecked subprocess call](https://semgrep.dev/dlukeomalley:unchecked-subprocess-call) |
| Codify project-specific knowledge | [Verify before make](https://semgrep.dev/dlukeomalley:verify-before-make)                                                                                            |
| Audit security hotspots           | [Airflow XSS](https://semgrep.live/ievans:airflow-xss), [Hardcoded credentials](https://semgrep.dev/dlukeomalley:hardcoded-credentials)                              |
| Audit configuration files         | [S3 ARN use](https://semgrep.dev/dlukeomalley:s3-arn-use)                                                                                                            |

Reviewer 2: Not sure if GitHub placed this ^^^ comment in the right location. It was meant to be a comment on the code between lines [90, 98] and [100, 103].

Author: This looks fantastic. I am glad to have had my work improved upon 🙏

* See [Semgrep rule writing methodology](docs/writing_rules/README.md) for
  details on the thought process behind writing and rolling out a new Semgrep
  rule successfully, and see [these docs](docs/writing_rules/examples.md) for
  walkthroughs of writing rules from scratch.
* There's also an interactive, example-based Semgrep rule writing tutorial here:
  https://semgrep.dev/learn.

### Run Semgrep Continuously in CI

Semgrep can be run via CLI or Docker and output results as JSON (via the `--json` flag), so it can be inserted into any CI pipeline and have its results processed by whatever tools you're using.

Semgrep is aware of *diffs*, so it can report only findings that occur in newly added code, for example, in a commit or pull request.

Currently, the easiest way to integrate Semgrep into CI is via a GitHub action we've built. See the [integrations docs](docs/integrations.md) for more details.

Semgrep can also output results in the standardized Static Analysis Results Interchange Format ([SARIF](https://docs.oasis-open.org/sarif/sarif/v2.1.0/cs01/sarif-v2.1.0-cs01.html)) with the `--sarif` flag, if you use tools that accept this format.

> ## Upgrading

Reviewer 4: We need to keep the `Upgrading` header - it's referenced by the upgrade CLI message:

> "A new version of Semgrep is available. Please see https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep#upgrading for more information."

That or we need to change the upgrade message and put this information in a new location. But then of course older Semgrep versions will be pointing to the wrong location.

Author: Great catch. Added back, mind taking a look?

> - [Community rule registry](https://semgrep.dev/r)

Reviewer 2: I thought you wanted to capitalize Registry, no?
